auto generated update of versioned plugin documentation (#1433)
elastic/logstash-docs: docs/versioned-plugins/outputs/elasticsearch-v11.9.2.asciidoc

|=======================================================================

Also see <<{version}-plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> for a list of options supported by all
output plugins.

&nbsp;

[id="{version}-plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-action"]
===== `action`

  * Value type is {logstash-ref}/configuration-file-structure.html#string[string]
  * Default value is `create` for data streams, and `index` for non-time series data.

The Elasticsearch action to perform. Valid actions are:

- `index`: indexes a document (an event from Logstash).
- `delete`: deletes a document by id (An id is required for this action)
- `create`: indexes a document, fails if a document by that id already exists in the index.
- `update`: updates a document by id. Update has a special case where you can upsert -- update a
  document if not already present. See the `doc_as_upsert` option. NOTE: This does not work and is not supported
  in Elasticsearch 1.x. Please upgrade to ES 2.x or greater to use this feature with Logstash!
- A sprintf style string to change the action based on the content of the event. The value `%{[foo]}`
  would use the foo field for the action.

>   If resolved action is not in [`index`, `delete`, `create`, `update`], the event will not be sent to {es}, and will instead either be sent to the pipeline's {logstash-ref}/dead-letter-queues.html[dead-letter-queues] if it is enabled, or will be logged and dropped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If resolved action is not in [`index`, `delete`, `create`, `update`], the event will not be sent to {es}.
Instead the event will be sent to the pipeline's {logstash-ref}/dead-letter-queues.html[dead-letter-queue (DLQ)] (if enabled), or it will be logged and dropped.
```
